LOS ANGELES REFINERY
2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 	2	..........................................................................................................................
BUSINESS CONTEXT 	3	..............................................................................................................................
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR 2020 & 2021 	7	...............................................................................................
STAKEHOLDER MAPPING 	13	....................................................................................................................
COMMUNICATIONS PLAN 	14	....................................................................................................................
MPAC 	17	......................................................................................................................................................
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 	18	..................................................................................................................
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TEAM 	24	................................................................................................
MEASUREMENT & REPORTING 	25	..........................................................................................................
COMMUNITY PRESENTATION DECK 	26	..................................................................................................
!
1

-- 1 of 26 --

LOS ANGELES REFINERY
2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PLAN SUMMARY & SCOPE
This plan contains the objectives, strategies and tactics that can guide effective engagement with stakeholders,
including community leaders and neighbors; select advocacy groups, nonprofit organizations and media; state
and local government and regulatory officials and their staffs; major customers and business partners; and
internal employees and retirees in support of the Los Angeles refinery in the City of Carson and City of Los
Angeles (Wilmington).
PURPOSE & OBJECTIVES
This plan identifies high-level strategies to defend MPC’s license to operate through effective outreach to key
stakeholders and audiences.Earn trust capital for MPC and local assets through effective execution of ongoing
engagement strategies;
• 	Respond to existing perception issues and launch a proactive communications strategy to better position the asset with
stakeholders, government, media and major customers;
• 	Conduct stakeholder outreach in the community surrounding the asset, which will be crucial to doing business in the
region; enhance the perception of being a good community partner; and achieve mutual trust with stakeholders;
• 	Soften the ground for future permitting considerations for refinery projects such as LASR projects to provide for efficiency
and modernization of the asset;
• 	Influence opinion leaders and public policy through advocacy and engagement;
• 	Collect and utilize intelligence to refine engagement strategies and tactics moving forward;
• 	Achieve mutual trust with stakeholders;
• 	Build relationships with stakeholders so they are comfortable and willing to speak on our behalf;
• 	Enhance reputation and perception of being a good community partner; and
• 	Collaborate with stakeholders to create Shared Value.
DEFINITIONS
Who is a Stakeholder? Individual(s), group(s) or organization(s), internal or external, whose interests are
positively or negatively impacted by MPC business, products and/or services. Stakeholders have the ability to
positively or negatively influence MPC, its people, business, products and/or services, and/or the environment
in which MPC operates.
What is Stakeholder Engagement? 1) Identification of stakeholder(s); 2) prioritization; 3) analysis; 4) internal
alignment and management of expectations; 5) purposeful communication; 6) sustainable investment; 7)
deliberate engagement; 8) collaboration for strategic and competitive advantage; and 9) enhanced value
creation and/or shared value.
Shared Value is a way of doing business that involves considering and working with key stakeholders to create
value for all of us. We take a deliberate and proactive approach to sustainability and our commitment to
creating shared value for the Company and our stakeholders, including government, community and
employees.
!
2

-- 2 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
BUSINESS CONTEXT
BACKGROUND
Marathon Petroleum Corporation's Los Angeles refinery (LAR) is the combination of two neighboring facilities,
both constructed in 1923, which are on a combined 950 acres bordered on the north by 223rd Street, the south by
Pacific Coast Highway, the west by Wilmington Avenue and the east by the Dominguez Channel.
Due to its size and combination of facilities, LAR resides within multiple government jurisdictions, including City of
Los Angeles, City of Carson, Los Angeles County, and is immediately adjacent to the City of Long Beach, all of
which have their own local governments. LAR also resides within multiple congressional districts and California
state senate and assembly districts. LAR is highly regulated by multiple state, regional and local agencies, most
notably, and most agressively, by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and the South Coast Air Quality
Management District (SCAQMD).
In 2017, the Los Angeles Refinery Integration and Compliance (LARIC) project was certified and began
construction to physically integrate the two refineries into one cleaner and more efficient facility. The combined
LAR can produce 363,000 barrels per calendar day (bpcd) from crude oil delivered to our marine terminal assets
at the Port of Long Beach.
LAR is the largest refinery on the West Coast. A major producer of clean fuels, the refinery manufactures all
grades of gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel, petroleum coke, fuel oil, fuel gases, propylene and calcined coke from
crude purchased all over the world. LAR's Watson cogeneration plant produces 400 megawatts of electricity for
use by the refinery and exported to the grid and is the largest cogeneration facility in California.
ASSET LEADERSHIP’S STATED PRIORITIES
A two-year overview of projects and business goals as outlined by the refinery manager and leadership team.
Permitting for Multiple Projects Under LASR Program: The Los Angeles Strategic Repositioning (LASR)
Program will develop and progress the following major focus areas at the refinery: Hydro-processing
Optimization; Electrification/Intertie; Fuel gas system management; and Sulfuric Acid Regeneration
Plant. Corporate Affairs will provide support and engage stakeholders to facilitate approval for the necessary
permits to enable the LASR Program.
Cost Effective Transition from RECLAIM: A smooth and cost-effective transition from the NOx RECLAIM
program to a command and control regulatory regime requires a comprehensive plan that addresses all of the
issues associated with the transition in a coordinated manner. Corporate Affairs and refinery staff will
coordinate SCAQMD board members and staff to advocate for a reasonable outcome.
Anti Fossil-Fuel Initiatives: The Governor, State Legislature, California Air Resources Board, Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors and the City of Los Angeles have all adopted various forms of policy goals,
objectives and plans to eliminate fossil fuels by 2040/2045. Some of the policy directives, including the Los
Angeles County Sustainability Plan have included stated goals to "eliminate refineries" in the state or region.
We are working with WSPA, Labor and BizFed on stakeholder, coalition building and grassroots strategies
that defend the refinery’s license to operate in California and the Los Angeles region.
Local Goodwill and Reputation: Maintain LAR’s impact in the surrounding community and build on existing
goodwill with neighbors and local leaders. The LAR manager would specifically like to see an increase in
employee involvement, volunteering and fundraising in the communities neighboring the refinery (Carson,
Wilmington and West Long Beach).
!
3

-- 3 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Employee Culture: Align and unify Los Angeles refinery employees around the new oneMPC's aligned direction.
Additionally, as a part of a continued focus on safety, LAR will begin work to meet OSHA’s VPP safety
standards and earn VPP’s highest rating. Increase hands-on community service and fundraising by LAR
employees and contractors.
KEY CHALLENGES & KNOWN ISSUES
A high-level risk assessment of the issues impacting MPC's business, customers, employees, community relationships, and
the asset's overall license to operate.
Political & Legislative Considerations: State, regional and local anti-fossil fuel agenda with specific phase-out
deadlines for in-state oil and gas production and California refineries. Specific to local issues in the Los
Angeles region, in early August, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors unanimously passed the Los
Angeles County Sustainability Plan (LACSP), a comprehensive document that details 12 goals with
corresponding strategies and actions that, if implemented, would fundamentally alter the county’s landscape
and alter its economy. Similarly, but on a separate track, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti recently authored
LA’s New Green Deal – Sustainable City Plan (Plan) – a document that overlaps the LACSP. Together and
separately, both documents represent a significant concern to the industry and local refineries. We will
be working with WSPA, Labor, Bizfed and other stakeholders to reframe and refocus the debate on both
documents, as the Board of Supervisors, City Council and other municipal agencies throughout Los Angeles
County consider specific legislation to implement the goals/objectives of both documents.
Regulatory Considerations (SCAQMD BARCT Requirements): Industry has emphasized the need for greater
coordination between the SCAQMD rulemaking group and the permitting group to ensure timely review and
action on applications to implement the new BARCT requirements and avoid unanticipated issues during the
permitting process. In addition, implementation dates must accommodate other permitting processes that
may apply to BARCT implementation projects, including city or county permitting, some of which may trigger
review under the California Environmental Quality Act.
Regulatory Considerations (RECLAIM Facilities): SCAQMD staff is in the process of amending or adopting a
number of revised “landing rules” that will require former RECLAIM facilities to comply with current “best
available retrofit control technology” or “BARCT.” BARCT is defined as “an emission limitation that is based
on the maximum degree of reduction achievable, taking into account environmental, energy and economic
impacts by each class or category of source.” Corporate Affairs will advocate for positive outcomes consistent
with the following policy principles for RECLAIM: (1) The process for developing proposed BARCT standards
must be transparent; (2) Proposed limits on NOx and ammonia slip must be compatible; (3) Potential
increases in co-pollutants must be taken into consideration; (4) BARCT standards must not mandate
complete replacement of the source; (5) SCAQMD staff must be disciplined in its cost-effectiveness
assessment; and (6) BARCT rules must provide alternative compliance mechanisms for facilities faced with
unique constraints.
Regulatory Considerations (AB 617 Community Steering Committee): Participated and represented MPC in
the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) AB 617 Community Steering Committee (CSC)
Wilmington/Carson/West Long Beach (WCWLB). This was part of a series of monthly meetings for the
committee and the public to provide input on the development of Community Air Monitoring Plans (CAMP)
and Community Emission Reduction Plans (CERP) implemented through Assembly Bill (AB) 617 Community
Air Initiatives. The main purpose of this Community Air Monitoring Plan (CAMP) was to summarize the
proposed air monitoring activities for addressing the major air quality concerns identified by CSC – WCWLB
and provide information supporting the Community Emission Reduction Plan (CERP), which has been
developed. The next phase of this program would be the implementation of the Community Emission
Reduction Plan.
!
4

-- 4 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Regulatory Context (Local & State): At both the state and local levels, Southern California is highly regulated
with multiple agencies that have jurisdiction on rulemaking, enforcement and permitting, most importantly and
most challenging of which are the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and the South Coast Air Quality
Management District (SCAQMD).
Permitting Considerations: Previous experience with Los Angeles Refinery Integration & Compliance project
(LARIC) and SCAQMD Environmental Impact Review (EIR) provides indication of permitting challenges for
any refinery project. In addition to SCAQMD permits, most projects require additional permits from
associated regulatory agencies (waste, water, etc.) plus land use permits from municipal jurisdictions such as
City of Carson, City of Los Angeles (Wilmington) and Los Angeles County, which come with their own
challenges, timelines, cost and public input, regardless of how "minor" or "major" the permits appear to be.
This must all be taken into consideration when planning and strategizing for the Los Angeles Refinery
Strategic Repositioning program (LASR) described above under Asset Priorities.
Refinery Fence line Air Monitoring: Per requirements of California law AB 1647 and SCAQMD Rule 1180, In
January 2020, Marathon’s Carson and Wilmington facilities will begin the operation of an air monitoring
system designed to collect real-time air quality information on the fence line of the refinery. The system will
include air monitoring stations and open paths around each of the two facilities for 17 air pollutants/
compounds. New data will be available for community groups to misinterpret or use against us. Per Rule
1180, members of the public (including activists and media) can sign up to receive alert notifications if/when
the refinery exceeds a specific threshold for any of the pollutants being monitored.
Electricity Sales from Watson Cogen: Natural gas-fired baseload generation is not consistent with the priorities
of the State of California, nor economically desirable for sale to Southern California Edison post-2022.
Reductions in steam consumption and increase in electrification and LAR is essential to minimize this
forward-looking risk to refinery operations. The LASR program contains an electrical intertie between Carson/
Watson Cogen to our Wilmington Plant.
Operations Issues at the Refineries: Generally speaking, the MPC Los Angeles refinery has a good safety and
environmental record compared to other refiners in the region. However, we do have some historic records of
violations from the Carson Plant and Wilmington Plant under legacy ownership that are often referred to as
examples of historical problems. Additionally, a single flaring event can lead to significant emission
exceedances that are publicly reported and lead to scrutiny of our operations and reputation. Local activists
are extremely focused on flaring events and their perception of a high level of flaring emissions.
Lack of Brand/Corporate Name Recognition: We have some challenge with the public at large due to our lack
of corporate name recognition on the west coast and in Southern California. Due to the history of ownership
changes and also the separation of the ARCO retail brand name from MPC, we are often unrecognized by the
general public and outlying policymakers. It would be very helpful to have Marathon Petroleum-specific
corporate advertising in the region throughout 2020 and 2021 - separate from retail marketing - to support
our new name recognition and reputation.
Budget Deficits in Carson Create a Myriad of Fee Increases: The City of Carson has a structural budget
deficit relating to their low ratio of County property tax revenue established as part of the city incorporated in
1964. Furthermore, the previous Governor Brown's elimination of redevelopment agency funds had a major
impact on the City of Carson, which previously enjoyed an abundance of these funds generated by refinery
projects. These situations have yielded various ordinances and ballot measures such as the Carson oil
business tax that continue to put financial stress on LAR to help make up the difference for City coffers. They
have also led to a City of Carson practice of requiring expensive development agreements or "community
benefit agreements" in order to gain approvals for siting, permitting and rights of way. This must be taken into
consideration for the LASR permit approvals and pending audit of LAR's Carson oil business license tax
payments.
!
5

-- 5 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Perception Issues: LAR Wilmington Plant is in the 15th District of Los Angeles and is a prime example of an
environmental justice community that is nestled among multiple refineries and the Ports of LA/LB. Wilmington
is a largely low income and hispanic population. Well-known environmental activists, Jesse
Marquez (Communities for Safer Environment) and Alicia Rivera (Communities for Better Environment), have
become self-appointed leaders of the local EJ movement and are extremely focused on opposing refineries
with the stated goal of shutting us and other refineries down. They loudly point to concerns about asthma,
cancer and other health issues that they directly attribute to the refineries despite the abundance of mobile
sources and other industrial sources of emissions in the area.
Environmental Justice Issues: California Law AB617 provides for more direct involvement by residents and
activists representing environmental justice communities in the development of air quality regulations and
programs to be imposed on refineries and other emission sources. During the first year of the Wilmington/
Carson/West Long Beach Community Steering Committee process, we saw a dramatic increase in the
influence of activists over SCAQMD staff and policy development. The AB617 is a multi-year, ongoing process
that will continue to impact our refinery and other MPC operations.
Community Investment Issues: A dramatic decrease in community investment funding from the Foundation has
the potential to damage the refinery’s reputation with impacted stakeholders and elected officials monitoring
our corporate citizenship. The result could be, at least for the immediate future, a hit on the refinery’s
reputation and a disconnect from those who have willingly served as surrogates for our business and the
value MPC's Carson and Wilmington facilities bring to California. This comes at a time when MPC needs to
be building networks and coalitions to confront strong anti-industry challenges at the state and local levels
and to position ourselves for permit approvals to modernize our facilities to increase efficiency and flexibility of
operations.
Media Landscape: Writers and outlets in the Los Angeles Basin area are largely progressive and are heavily
influenced by the environmental justice community. This reality makes it difficult to inject facts and dispel
myths and misinformation about refining and our business and products. The local media rarely, if ever, asks
MPC for comment on pending stories. The only business/industry friendly publications are the Long Beach
Business Journal and Los Angeles Business Journal, with which we have a proactive engagement level for
positive news and comment. It will be important to manage expectations on metrics for success as we look to
improve relations in such a hostile media market.
Additional MPC Assets in Southern California: While this plan is specific to LAR, there are significant
additional associated assets in Southern California that comprise the full value chain to optimize LAR
production. The bulk of those assets are near or overlap the communities of significance, most notably the
City of Long Beach and Ports of Long Beach/Los Angeles In 2020, the SoCal GPA team will develop a
separate and complementary Stakeholder Engagement Plan for these regional assets.
!
6

-- 6 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR 2020 & 2021
STRATEGIES
The Los Angeles refinery is addressing important state, regional and local issues that often impact business
operations and our industry and to influence stakeholder groups.
Anti-fossil fuel sentiment is high throughout the state and region and most notable in metro areas.
Additionally, environmental stakeholders are well organized and funded and engage aggressively in the
environmental justice communities in which LAR and our associated assets operate.
To be successful in Southern California, MPC LAR and Corporate Affairs takes a proactive stance at engaging
stakeholders at all levels of government and with community groups concerned about public safety, air and water
quality, energy, good jobs and affordable energy.
A stakeholder engagement strategy that ties our community investment within a broader political and regulatory
strategic framework, executed by local Government and Public Affairs personnel is cornerstone to long-term
successes in the challenging business environment.
Corporate Affairs recommends a multi-pronged approach that addresses stakeholder engagement in the Carson,
Wilmington and Long Beach communities to maintain trust capital earned during our significant stakeholder
external engagement activities in support of LARIC and LAR’s license to operate.
Local Stakeholder Outreach
• 	Introduce MPC brand to the community and
oneMPC messages to employees
• 	Continue to engage municipality decisionmakers
(emphasis on Cities of Carson, Los Angeles and
Long Beach and Los Angeles County)
• 	Continue coalition building with WSPA, BizFed,
CCEEB and California Building Trades to
strategically influence SCAQMD Board Members
on RECLAIM transition rule development.
• 	Connect more closely with local Building Trades
representatives and major contractors to ensure
proactive political engagement on matters of
importance to LAR and the industry.
• 	Continue participation in relevant business
organizations and chambers of commerce to
complement the industry's coalition building and
messaging around affordable energy.
• 	Continue focus on safety and environmental
partnership opportunities in the local community.
• 	Continue focus on local STEM opportunities in the
local schools and nonprofit organizations.
• 	Continue to utilize LAR's Community Advisory
Panel (CAP) as our front-line community
education forum and increase our presence at
other community education forums such as the
Carson Sheriff Block Captain group, West Long
Beach Neighborhood Association, Regional
Hispanic Energy Education Forum and others.
• 	Respond to community concerns and address
challenges posed by fence line monitoring system.
• 	Review LAR’s annual investment strategy to
maximize trust capital in local neighborhoods.
• 	Look to place and maintain refinery leadership on
strategic local community or nonprofit boards.
• 	Invite local officials to speak at LAR-sponsored
community events.
Statewide Outreach
• 	Coordinate with MPC Sacramento office in support
of Southern California local advocacy and
reputation management.
• 	Continue stakeholder engagement with local
district offices of state elected officials.
• 	Provide feedback loop on proposed state
legislation with potential impact to LAR.
• 	Coordinate with MPC Sacramento office and local
business organizations to identify and support
candidates that are supportive of our industry at all
levels of government.
Media Relations
• 	Maintain industry positive perceptions by
increasing our engagement cadence with media to
educate and get out in front of myths and
misinformation.
• 	Develop a powerful and informative playbook of
messages that inform the public of our value to the
!
7

-- 7 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
community and address pessimistic outlook on the
industry.
• 	Incorporate audience segmentation research for
social media messages.
• 	Collaborate with business partners on safety and
environmental stewardship messaging.
• 	Look for local storytelling opportunities that drive
our commitment to the local community and
support oneMPC messaging.
• 	Author stories about the refinery's workforce,
ambassador program, summer youth program and
volunteer activities that could be published on the
BizFed or WSPA websites. Connect with local
elected officials with messages they can share
about the program with their own audiences.
Internal Alignment
• 	Launch 2020 oneMPC employee campaign at the
refinery to align employees with MPC's Vision,
Values & Strategic Pillars.
• 	Continue to serve on the LAR Leadership Team to
ensure Corporate Affairs knowledge and alignment
with LAR priorities and operations.
• 	Contractors/Union: LAR has a statewide
agreement with the California State Building and
Construction Trades, a very strong political force in
state. Furthermore, through WSPA, a formalized
agreement with the Building Trades (CALOMA, or
California Labor Oil Management Alliance) exists
to jointly address legislative and regulatory threats
to the industry. CALOMA has begun to foster a
relationship with USW to bring them into the fold.
USW largely has historically been ineffective
politically, though there have been limited areas
where they have assisted. An opportunity exists to
engage USW advocacy efforts further.
• 	Build a plan to engage LAR employees as
mentors for the upcoming LAR community
ambassador program.
Addressing Community Investment Changes
• 	Maximize exposure around historical and ongoing
community investments to demonstrate MPC’s
significant involvement and responsiveness to
community needs.
• 	Continue to publicize LAR's significant
investments in Los Angeles Unified School District,
local nonprofit organizations and individual
schools neighboring the refinery.
• 	Continue LAR Summer Youth Internship Program.
• 	Maximize the local giving budget to supplement
MPC Foundation grant and align with LAR
employee volunteer activities.
• 	Work with Communications to publicize coast-to-
coast and local corporate social responsibility wins
with media or through social media campaigns.
• 	Develop strategic investment planning for 2021
MPC Foundation budget to ensure meaningful
grants for key stakeholders and nonprofit
partnerships.
TACTICS & PROPOSED ACTIONS
Quarterly reviews of tactics, audience feedback, community events, and coalition building efforts will provide intelligence and
metrics for the refinery and Corporate Affairs team to adjust for best results as the strategy timeline proceeds. Actions outlined
below will be initiated by leadership and will be led by the region’s Government & Public Affairs staff. A timeline will be
produced to display responsibilities and tie tactics to leadership’s priorities stated in the Stakeholder Engagement Plan.
Successfully Supporting the Los Angeles Refinery During Upcoming Permitting: The refinery is preparing
to apply for a number of different permits over the course of 2020 - 2022 to enable the LASR program
including various environmental and construction permits from various jurisdictions for Hydro-processing
Optimization; Electrification/Intertie; Fuel gas system management; and Sulfuric Acid Regeneration Plant.
Corporate Affairs will work closely with the refinery on each permitting process to soften the ground as
needed in the community and work to drive public support for each permit. Here is a list of tactical work the
team will undertake:
• 	Educate key stakeholders including CAP and elected officials of the value of the LASR program and associated
approvals.
o 	How: Develop messaging and collateral materials as needed in anticipation of application submission
o 	Timing: recommend pre-application
o 	Team: Tiffany Rau, Olga Chavez, Brianna Patterson, Denis Kurt/Robin Schott
• 	Support the refinery in drafting support letters as needed
!
8

-- 8 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
o 	How: Prepare draft letters and distribute
o 	Timing: permit comment period
o 	Team: Tiffany Rau, Olga Chavez, Brianna Patterson, Denis Kurt/Robin Schott
• 	Recruit allied stakeholders in the community to serve as surrogates at permit hearings as needed and deliver the
value of the project to decision-makers.
o 	How: Meetings and various engagement to recruit surrogates
o 	Timing: permit comment period
o 	Team: Tiffany Rau, Olga Chavez, Colin Maynard
• 	Be prepared to engage media if necessary, roll in positive stories related to newsroom and editorial board visits
where possible.
o 	Team: Tiffany Rau, Olga Chavez, Brianna Patterson, Jamal Kheiry
Public Outreach and Education on Fence Line Monitoring Sytem: The LAR fence line monitoring system will
sample for and analyze a total of 17 compounds. The live data will be available in January 2020. The air
monitoring system is part of Marathon’s compliance with the South Coast Air Quality Management District’s
Rule 1180 adopted in July 2017. A very important component of the air monitoring program is the availability
of real-time results online. The community will have access to real-time air quality information around the
refinery. Additionally, community members will be able to opt in to receive notifications about the program and
when the air monitoring stations detect a level exceeding pre-determined thresholds.
The key stakeholders for the fence line monitoring program include but are not limited to residential and
business communities, sensitive receptors, schools, libraries, health care providers, neighborhood association
representatives, local fire agencies, emergency response agencies and public officials. Our fence line
monitoring public education program includes the following:
• 	Community newsletter sent to approximately 29,000 residents within a two-mile perimeter of our refinery facilities.
Our winter community newsletter will be titled “Focus on the Fence Line” and will provide information on our fence
line air monitoring program in addition to other refinery perimeter topics.
• 	LAR Community Advisory Panel (CAP), which meets bi-monthly, where we provide presentations to CAP members
regarding refinery safety and environmental protection and regulatory compliance. To date, we have provided
multiple presentations to our 35+ CAP members regarding SCAQMD Rule 1180, our fence line monitoring plan and
equipment, and public notification sign-up. Our January 2020 CAP meeting will include a real-time review of the
website: www.marathonlosangelesrefineryfencelinemonitoring.com
• 	Participation in Carson Sheriff Station Block Captain meetings, including refinery tours and educational booths on our
fence line monitoring program.
• 	Participation and funding for Beach Cities Community Awareness and Emergency Response (CAER) program with
CUPA’s and other first responder organizations in the South Bay.
• 	We will continue to work with I Heart Carson and I Heart Wilmington grassroots community service groups. These
are groups of residents in each respective community to whom we can provide refinery information such as our fence
line monitoring program.
• 	We will seek additional community forums and communication avenues for educating the public on our fence line
monitoring program and website such as at meetings of the West Long Beach Neighborhood Association and Rotary
Clubs and Chambers of Commerce in Carson, Wilmington and Long Beach; along with outreach to our neighboring
schools, parent-teacher organizations and nonprofit community partners.
AB 617 Community Steering Committee: Olga Chavez will to continue to participate and represent MPC on
the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) AB 617 Community Steering Committee (CSC)
Wilmington/Carson/West Long Beach (WCWLB). This is a series of monthly meetings for local residents on
the committee and the public audience to provide input on the development of Community Air Monitoring
Plans (CAMP) and Community Emission Reduction Plans (CERP) implemented through Assembly Bill (AB)
!
9

-- 9 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
617 Community Air Initiatives. The main purpose of this Community Air Monitoring Plan (CAMP) was to
summarize the proposed air monitoring activities for addressing the major air quality concerns identified by
CSC – WCWLB and provide information supporting the Community Emission Reduction Plan (CERP), which
has been developed. The next phase of this program will be the implementation of the Community Emission
Reduction Plan.
Continue to Engage Community Advisory Panel (CAP): The community advisory panel (CAP) process
provides an ideal opportunity for sponsoring companies and members of the community to interact in a
productive forum that fosters win-win relationships. To create this environment, selecting panel members in a
proper manner is a critical step in the process. Defining goals, implementing research to seat the CAP and
selecting and retaining a cross-section of the community also contribute to the panel's success. We are
engaging in an outreach effort to bring more Carson leaders to the CAP as members. We believe the CAP is
an exemplary grassroots platform to engage stakeholders and continually improve our profile with leaders.
Extend Neighbor Outreach Opportunities: The Cities of Carson and Wilmington (Los Angeles) have several
groups that we deem crucial to making a positive impact for the reputation of the MPC brand as a strong
corporate citizen and community partner. For example, we are working with the Carson Sheriff Block
Captains and neighboring Homeowner Associations to engage, educate and gain support of these groups.
We have identified schools within a two-mile radius of the refinery and work with principals and PTA leaders to
secure support of refinery operations. We must continue to provide Foundation funding and volunteer
activities to directly benefit these local schools. Also, we must continue to work through SBCC Thrive LA in
educating and forming a strong relationship with the I Heart Carson group consisting of approximately 30
Hispanic mothers in Southeast Carson. We also should resume our historical engagement with the Carson
Coordinating Council, which is a group of local leaders that invest in Carson through community service.
Continue to Support MPC Los Angeles Refinery Ambassador Program: During a visit with our strongest
nonprofit community partner, SBCC Thrive LA, Refinery Manager Brad Levi decided to start a community/
resident ambassador program. The Resident Ambassador program would aim to educate residents/neighbors
effectively about the importance of safety and environmental stewardship at LAR and the economic benefits
of the industry. We could model the resident program similar to our Summer Youth Internship Program
whereby our employees are assigned to be mentors to participants to share our operating story and provide a
platform for dialogue and transparency. Refining is a very complex process and not easy to understand for
someone with no industry background nor engineering knowledge. Using material that is simple to
understand, visuals or hands-on activities will provide a better understanding of our operations. Ultimately,
ambassadors can serve as the face and voice of the industry helping to engage, inform and mobilize a
diverse community of industry advocates. Perhaps most importantly, ambassadors can help to advocate for
policies and legislation that work to preserve our industry.
MPC Los Angeles Refinery Summer Youth Program: For 27 years, Marathon and its predecessor
organizations have hosted a seven-week program during the summer months aimed at developing students’
self-esteem and preparing them for future job searches. While most internship programs at Marathon are
geared toward college-bound students, the Summer Youth Program accepts interns of all academic skill
levels who spend the summer working in the office and out in the field for almost 40 hours per week at above
the minimum wage. They are also matched with Marathon employee mentors, creating relationships that
often extend beyond the program. Marathon recruits interns for the program directly from local high schools.
Each interested student writes an essay and completes an application, and about 100 of them receive an
invitation to interview with the company each year. This year, Marathon welcomed 34 interns into its ranks for
the summer. Program participants spent their time gaining:
• 	Classroom education about the facilities
• 	Hands-on experience at different job sites
!
10

-- 10 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
• 	Life-skills training focused on employability, computer dexterity and more
• 	Through this program, Marathon focuses on training young people to work both independently and as part of a team,
while emphasizing the importance of self-esteem, safety, punctuality, work ethic, listening and respect for others.
MPC LAR Employee Volunteer Programs by Department: Driven by LAR Leadership goals, various
departments are stepping up to develop team specific community service opportunities in the surrounding
area. SoCal GPA is acting as a liaison to help identify meaningful community partners and causes for LAR
employees and contractors to engage directly on specific projects that fit within departmental capabilities and
interests. As an example, the LAR Maintenance Group recently designed and implemented a project to help
modernize Wilmington Park Elementary School. Similar projects are being identified for other LAR
departments. This hands-on engagement helps to expand our footprint of community benefits and is
particularly welcome as MPC charitable grants have been reduced.
MPC Community Investment: Continue a robust community engagement program that had formerly strategically
invested $4.5M+ annually in Southern California in the primary focus areas of STEM, public safety and
environmental sustainability. This program has significantly benefited the surrounding community and greatly
enhanced goodwill with our neighbors and stakeholders. Elements include key relationships with local/state
government, board involvements, business association memberships, the MPC Foundation and volunteer
engagement. Going forward, we must ensure that our community investment and engagement strategy
maintains positive relationships with key stakeholders to protect our reputation, license to operate and ability
to grow/maximize our operations.
• 	Report on stakeholder relationships we must maintain within the framework of the new MPC Foundation and
available resources for 2020.
• 	Present strategy to refinery GM and Corporate Affairs SVP.
• 	Work with Communications to develop messages for those stakeholders who might have questions about changes in
program funding.
Key Stakeholder Relationships Impacted by 2019/2020 Community Investment Strategy: In 2019, we
strategically utilized community investments approved by Andeavor/MPC Foundation in late 2018, and promoted
it in the community throughout 2019. This strategy allowed us not to lose momentum and to introduce MPC in the
community. It also enabled us to engage nonprofits (third party validators) in publicizing the partnership, which
furthered Marathon’s presence in SoCal.
In 4Q 2019 - 2020, we were able to provide significant grants to our key community stakeholders – nonprofit
organizations, charities and education programs that MPC supports and receives trust capital from local decision-
makers and neighbors. This move kept our major nonprofit partners "whole" despite a reduction in Foundation
budget allocation from $4.9 million dollars in 2018 to $1.5 million dollars in 2019/20.
• 	These key stakeholder grant recipients include: Battleship USS Iowa Day of Discovery, EXP The Opportunity Engine,
Los Angeles Maritime Institute, MPC STEM Academies at the Boys and Girls Clubs of Carson, Long Beach, Los
Angeles Harbor and Carson YMCA, International Bird Rescue Center, Marine Mammal Care Center, Harbor Area
Gang Alternatives Program, 1736 Family Crisis Center, Phinneas Banning High School, Long Beach Library
Foundation and SBBC Energy Pathways program.
• 	Additionally, in 2019, we were able to continue and increase our participation in sponsorships of 501(C)6 and 501(C)3
fundraising events thus continuing to support hundreds of stakeholder organizations. We were also able to leverage
community benefit payments to enable Wilmington Town Square Park and Carson Dolphin Park as well as to leverage
funds raised by the LAR Contractor Safety Council Golf Tournament in support of local YMCA's.
!
11

-- 11 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
For 2021, LAR Leadership and GPA have determined the refinery needs $3 million dollars in local community
investment in order to continue making a positive impact and to maintain our key partnerships and recognition
from local schools and nonprofit partners.
• 	Corporate Affairs and refinery staff will collaborate to develop strategies and recommendations of how best to allocate
and utilize Foundation funding in 2021 and beyond to ensure best positioning for LAR in the community while
maintaining key stakeholder relationships and continuing to benefit to local residents.
• 	Recommendations will identify how recipients shape LAR’s local reputation, impact operations and demonstrate to
state and local decision-makers MPC’s commitment to stakeholder priorities.
• 	Corporate Affairs and refinery staff will identify relationship managers and activities that will help strengthen ties to
key community stakeholders and funding recipients.
Also of interest, we have seen our competitor refiners in Southern California stepping up to provide much more
charitable funding than in previous years and perhaps dampening the impact of MPC's reduced Foundation
budget grants.
Media Relations
• 	Work with WSPA to develop a messaging playbook on Southern California issues that they can use with media to tell
a broader industry story.
• 	Develop a timeline for 2020 and 2021 to engage newsrooms and meet influential writers.
• 	Compile list of useful trade and business journals that might place positive storytelling opportunities so we can play
off of those headlines with targeted digital media.
• 	Work with GPA and the MPC policy working group to develop fact-driven message playbook on climate policies and
their impacts on business, our customers and the economy (create fact sheets, blog posts and other content as
needed).
• 	Work with Jamal Kheiry and the L.A. GPA staff to develop a two-year editorial calendar and engagement strategy.
Internal Communications: Develop messaging that builds unity, collaboration, alignment and positive culture to
achieve operational excellence.
• 	Communicate with contractors to ensure successful execution of upcoming turnaround
• 	Maintain open lines of communication with major customers to be best prepared to communicate in the event of an
incident or disruption of service
• 	Maintain open lines of communication with major suppliers and look for collaboration on community investment and
stakeholder education
oneMPC Campaign: Share corporate's vision for the company and socalize with local employees.
• 	Develop collateral material for display inside the fence line
• 	Look for storytelling opportunities for MPC Connect and InsideMPC
Diversity & Inclusion: Work with the Findlay D&I team to maximize opportunities at the refineries. Look for ways
to promote events and messages to employees.
• 	Meet with D&I team and local HR team about 2020 opportunities
!
12

-- 12 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
STAKEHOLDER MAPPING
Corporate Affairs mapped stakeholders with additional insights about the refinery’s relationship with each stakeholder,
including predisposition, risk and known issues. Each stakeholder category will be linked to various strategies and activities
executed by MPC’s Government & Public Affairs, Sustainability, Communications, Human Resources, Diversity & Inclusion
and the Refinery Leadership Team. A complete and evergreen view of stakeholders in the region can be accessed on
FiscalNote, Corporate Affairs’ tool for tracking engagement with key influencers, leaders and decisionmakers.
Corporate Affairs has worked to map stakeholders in this fashion with additional insights about the refinery’s
relationship with each stakeholder, including predisposition, risk and known issues.
Once a final review has been completed, Corporate Affairs will work with the refinery to further prioritize
stakeholders and make recommendations about future engagement strategies and coalition building efforts. The
goal is to complete this work by the end of 2019 so both Corporate affairs and refinery teams are prepared to
implement in January 2020.
STAKEHOLDER CATEGORIES
Communities 	Government 	Our People 	Business Partners Major
Customers Shareholders
CAP Members
Charity Organization
Church
Climate Activist
Community Alliance
Higher Education
K-12 Educator
Local Business
Media
Military Branch
Neighbor
NGO
Tribe
Veterans Group
Youth Program
Agency (Inspector)
Agency (Permit Writer)
City Council Member
City Government
County Government
County Supervisor
Governor’s Office
Judicial
Mayor
Regulator (Federal)
Regulator (State
Regulator (Local)
State Representative
State Senate
US Congress
US Senate
Community Investment Lead
Diversity & Inclusion Lead
Executive
General Employee
Refinery Manager
Regional Logistics Manager
Regional Marketing Manager
Regional Speedway Manager
Retiree
Business Coalition
Contract Lobbyist
Economic Development
Industry Association
Labor/Union
Major Supplier
Other Contractor
MPC Customer
Marketing
Activist
Board Member
General
!
13

-- 13 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
COMMUNICATIONS PLAN
Corporate Affairs developed a communications plan specific to the Los Angeles refinery for internal and external
messaging strategy in 2020. It is intended to support leadership priorities outlined in the Stakeholder Engagement
Plan with tactics and proposed actions to address key challenges and known issues. (See addendum.)
oneMPC CORPORATE NARRATIVE
Since Marathon Petroleum and Andeavor became one company, we’ve been working to identify the attributes that
made each company unique; those that we share in common; and how these qualities align to make us a
stronger, smarter and more resilient organization. The result of this work is captured in the Aligned Direction –
shorthand for our Vision, Values, Strategic Pillars and the value we create for our Stakeholders. With this, we
intend to align and unify the organization around a single vision, creating distinction for MPC within the industry
and with all our stakeholders. Together with the narrative theme of Inspire Tomorrow, this common framework
provides both the structure and the flexibility to develop powerful, local stories that reflect not only who we are
today but also our path toward a brighter future.
This is the next chapter in our history, as oneMPC – a
single, aligned organization, composed of many parts;
united in purpose and execution; and fueled by the
competitive advantage of our integrated, coast-to-coast
network and the can-do attitude of our empowered
people.
The Corporate Affairs team is developing messages
and internal communications strategies to share the
oneMPC Vision, Values, and Strategic Pillars with the
refinery’s employees and contractors. In 2020, the
Communications team in Findlay will collaborate with
the Refinery Leadership Team to share stories and
create collateral to help unify stakeholders – Our
People and Business Partners – coast-to-coast.
!
14

-- 14 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
ASSET NARRATIVE
Corporate Affairs will develop collateral materials (pocket guides, social media content, infographics, and a
standard presentation deck for community engagement events) to promote the refinery’s role in the community. It
will be important for everyone to speak from the same messaging playbook in any external setting, and consider
the impact strategic actions and messages have on regional Communities, Government, Business Partners,
Customers and Shareholders.
General messages about the Los Angeles refinery include:
➢ 	About the Los Angeles Refinery: The Los Angeles refinery is the largest refinery on the West Coast
with a crude oil capacity of 363,000 barrels per calendar day (bpcd) A major producer of clean fuels, the
refinery manufactures all grades of gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel, petroleum coke, fuel oil, fuel gases,
propylene and calcined coke from crude purchased all over the world. The Los Angeles refinery
manufactures cleaner-burning California Air Resources Board (CARB) gasoline and CARB diesel fuel, as
well as conventional gasoline, distillates, petroleum coke, anode-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene,
fuel-grade coke, heavy fuel oil and propane. The refinery ships products via its connections to several
product distribution pipelines and terminals. Its Watson cogeneration plant produces 400 megawatts of
electricity for use by the refinery and exported to the grid and is the largest cogeneration facility in
California.
➢ 	Our Value to Southern California: Marathon Petroleum is part of the thriving ecosystem of the Southern
California community. Our integrated operations span from the transport of imported crude oil, all the way
to local gas stations. We provide transportation services through pipeline, trucking, storage and rail, while
we refine crude oil into products and supply fuel to retailers. According to California market share data,
MPC fuels one in every three cars in Southern California and one in every four planes leaving LAX
airport.
➢ 	Community Engagement: We operate in a community where STEM education, housing, jobs, clean air,
and environmental safety is important to stakeholders. We are aware of these priorities and we actively
partner with our communities to find and create shared value, making a positive difference together.
Environmental Stewardship: We are committed to minimizing our impact on the environment. As such,
we are involved in multiple programs, support several organizations and implement various initiatives that
aim to protect our environment and the local communities in which we operate. Below is a list of
accolades and accomplishments that we've earned at our Los Angeles refinery:
o 	Maintains an environmental management system (EMS) to ensure that the facility meets all environmental
permit limits and regulatory obligations consistently.
o 	Reducing NOx emissions from combustion equipment.
o 	Reduced flaring emissions greater than 75 percent from seven years ago.
o 	Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 70,000 metric tonnes through the Los Angeles Integration and
Compliance Project in 2018.
o 	Working collaboratively with local air agency to install a fence line air monitoring system that provides real-
time information about air pollutants by 2020.
o 	Funded three community air monitoring stations that are being installed in Carson and Wilmington by
SCAQMD.
o 	Top 25 percent in refining industry personal safety performance.
o 	Received the 2018 and 2017 Safety Achievement Award from American Fuel and Petrochemical
Manufacturers.
o 	Received the first LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification for an office building
in the City of Carson.
!
15

-- 15 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Furthermore, we participate and provide funding for the Beach Cities Community Awareness and
Emergency Response (CAER) program with CUPA’s and other first responder organizations in the
region. The Los Angeles refinery’s number one message is that we place our highest priority on the
safety of our employees, contractors and the community residents.
➢ 	LARIC Project: The Los Angeles Refinery Integration and Compliance (LARIC) Project was completed in
2019. LARIC is a $460 million, shared value, emission reduction project designed to enable further
integration of the Los Angeles refinery’s Carson and Wilmington operations, and to comply with federally
mandated Tier 3 gasoline specifications and with state and local regulations mandating emission
reductions. The Southern California Government and Public Affairs (GPA) and Permitting Team at the Los
Angeles refinery (LAR) collaborated on a multi-year process of permitting agency communication,
community outreach and investment to build relationships and bring awareness of the positive impacts of
the LARIC Project, as well as the refinery and MPC as a whole.
➢ 	Community Partnerships: We make it a priority to be actively involved in efforts that have a positive
impact on the community:
o 	Invested $4.8 million in charitable giving to nonprofit organizations across Southern California in 2018.
o 	Provided $175,000 grant to fund the Aquarium of the Pacific’s Aquarium on Wheels.
o 	Provided five-year, $400,000 grant to the American Red Cross of Long Beach and Rio Hondo Chapter to
purchase a new bloodmobile vehicle to service Los Angeles County.
o 	Provided $150,000 grant to AltaSea to support ocean-focused science, technology, engineering and math
(STEM) teacher training.
o 	Provided $200,000 grant to Los Angeles Unified School District East to install science, technology,
engineering, art and math (STEAM) labs at six schools in the city of South Gate.
o 	Sponsored various youth, government and STEM education programs across Southern California, including
multiple Boys and Girls Clubs and YMCA locations.
INCIDENT PLAYBOOK
In the event of an incident at the Southern California refineries, it will be important to standardize external
messaging, assign roles for communicating to stakeholders, and develop strategies to work with communities in
the aftermath of an incident. Corporate Affairs is in the process of creating a crisis playbook and will meet
with refinery leadership to customize for the local community. Once approved, the local incident response
playbook will be added to this plan as an appendix item.
SOCIAL MEDIA PLAN
Corporate Affairs will work with the Refinery Leadership Team to develop a targeted social media plan and
engage audiences and stakeholders in the local community. In addition, paid social media will help gather the
necessary data needed to profile audiences, rate perception, and make recommendations about content
strategies to influence and improve perception overall. Corporate Affairs will work with the refinery to build a
calendar that takes advantage of everything happening in the region, including community events, celebrations,
stakeholder partnerships and community investment profiles. Social media also will share refinery news, including
public safety updates, environmental stewardship wins, “good neighbor” employee profiles and volunteer days
that positively impact the local community and its stakeholders.
!
16

-- 16 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
MPAC
With the ever-changing political landscape in Washington, D.C., and in states where Marathon Petroleum
operates, Marathon Petroleum Corporation Employees Political Action Committee (MPAC) diligently works to
identify allies—new and old—who understand our industry and our issues. The large numbers of newcomers in
Congress and state legislatures are providing us with fresh opportunities to educate on our issues and create
winning coalitions, regardless of party affiliation. Since its formation in 2011, MPAC has been an extremely
successful vehicle for our employees to collectively add their voices to the political process. One of our key
challenges as an energy-sector business is the ever-expanding scope of government regulation. We also find that
many of our elected officials lack an understanding of the complexities of our business.
Supporting MPAC is one way we can advocate for sound economic and energy policies at the federal and state
levels. Through the upcoming year, we will focus on educating MPAC-eligible employees regarding the program’s
importance and growing our PAC via solicitations in order to increase our reach with political decisionmakers.
Tactics for success include:
• 	A selected local ambassador to help cultivate and educate the workforce on MPAC.
• 	One MPAC solicitation event annually.
• 	One MPAC President’s Club (invitation only) thank you event for participants at that level.
• 	General campaign information that can be used to educate and engage the workforce—especially in large election
years.
!
17

-- 17 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
PRIORITIES FOR 2020 & 2021
The Marathon Petroleum Foundation strategically focuses its community investments on three core areas where it
can make a positive, measurable impact: science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education,
environmental conservation/sustainability and public safety. Other categories of investment include employee
giving and volunteer hours devoted to local projects and organizations.
For additional details about MPC’s community investment strategies, please contact Cathy Huffman at
chuffman@marathonpetroleum.com or (419) 421-3993. LAR also maintains data about historic community and
foundation giving prior to the Andeavor acquisition dating back to 2015. Please contact Tiffany Rau at
terau@marathonpetroleum.com for details.
SNAPSHOT OF HISTORIC COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Recipient 	Category 	Amount 	Year
American National Red Cross 	Chartible Contributions 	$10,000 	2018
Arts District San Pedro Waterfront 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2018
Cabrillo High 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2018
Carson Coordinating Council 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2018
Friends Of Cabrillo Marine Aquarium 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,500 	2018
Harbor Area Gang Alternatives 	Chartible Contributions 	$7,500 	2018
Harry Bridges Span 	Chartible Contributions 	$25,000 	2018
La Harbor International Film Festival 	Chartible Contributions 	$3,000 	2018
La Palma Community Foundation 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2018
Legacy La Youth Development Corporation 	Chartible Contributions 	$4,900 	2018
Los Angeles Fire Department Foundation 	Chartible Contributions 	$10,000 	2018
Los Angeles Fire Department Foundation 	Chartible Contributions 	$10,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,000 	2018
Southeast Community Development Corporation 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2018
The Rotary Foundation Of Rotary International 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,000 	2018
United Cambodian Community 	Chartible Contributions 	$7,500 	2018
United Cambodian Community 	Chartible Contributions 	$10,000 	2018
Wilmington Coordinating Council 	Chartible Contributions 	$3,000 	2018
Young Womens Christian Association Of The Harbor Area 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2018
American Lung Association 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Barrio Logan College Institute 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,500 	2019
Beacon House Association Of San Pedro 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Boys And Girls Clubs Of Long Beach 	Chartible Contributions 	$1,500 	2019
Boys And Girls Clubs Of The Los Angeles Harbor 	Chartible Contributions 	$1,500 	2019
Bridge Cities Alliance 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Carson Sheriff Station Support Foundation 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,500 	2019
!
18

-- 18 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Carson Womens Club 	Chartible Contributions 	$4,000 	2019
Conservation Corps Of Long Beach 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,500 	2019
Food Finders Inc 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Friends Of Banning Park Corporation 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Friends Of Cabrillo Marine Aquarium 	Chartible Contributions 	$10,000 	2019
Hispanas Organized For Political Equality-California 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
International Trade Education Programs Inc 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
La Palma Community Foundation 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Long Beach Community Action Partnership 	Chartible Contributions 	$1,500 	2019
Long Beach Public Library Foundation 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,500 	2019
Long Beach Veterans Day Committee 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Los Angeles Council Of Black Professional Engineers 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,500 	2019
Nosotros Association 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Philippine Independence Day Foundation 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Social And Environmental Entrepreneurs 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,000 	2019
Society Of Women Engineers 	Chartible Contributions 	$1,350 	2019
Special Olympics Southern California Inc 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
United States Veterans Initiative 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Veterans Independence Day Celebration Inc 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,000 	2019
Wilmington Community Clinic 	Chartible Contributions 	$2,500 	2019
Women In Non Traditional Employment Roles 	Chartible Contributions 	$4,000 	2019
Workshops For Warriors Inc 	Chartible Contributions 	$5,000 	2019
Young Mens Christian Association Of Greater Long Beach 	Chartible Contributions 	$750 	2019
1736 Family Crisis Center 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
Algalita Marine Research And Education 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Altamed Health Services Corp 	Foundation 	$2,500 	2018
Altamed Health Services Corp 	Foundation 	$110,000 	2018
Altasea At The Port Of Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
Altasea At The Port Of Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
American National Red Cross 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
American National Red Cross - Greater Long Beach Chapter 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
American Red Cross 	Foundation 	$80,000 	2018
Aquarium Of The Pacific 	Foundation 	$30,000 	2018
Aquarium Of The Pacific 	Foundation 	$175,000 	2018
Asociacion Cultural De South Bay Of Greater Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$3,000 	2018
Assistance League Of Long Beach 	Foundation 	$15,000 	2018
Assistance League Of Long Beach 	Foundation 	$85,000 	2018
Big Brothers Big Sisters Of Orange County And The Inland Empire 	Foundation 	$110,000 	2018
Birney Elementary 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
!
19

-- 19 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Boys & Girls Club Of Carson 	Foundation 	$150,000 	2018
Boys And Girls Clubs Of Long Beach 	Foundation 	$125,000 	2018
Boys And Girls Clubs Of The Los Angeles Harbor 	Foundation 	$24,000 	2018
Boys And Girls Clubs Of The Los Angeles Harbor 	Foundation 	$125,000 	2018
Boys And Girls Clubs Of The Los Angeles Harbor 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
Boys And Girls Clubs Of The Los Angeles Harbor 	Foundation 	$1,000 	2018
Broad Avenue Elementary 	Foundation 	$15,000 	2018
Cabrillo High 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Cabrillo High 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Cabrillo High 	Foundation 	$20,000 	2018
California Latino Leadership Institute 	Foundation 	$2,500 	2018
Carson Senior High 	Foundation 	$150,000 	2018
Carson Senior High 	Foundation 	$7,000 	2018
Carson Sheriff Station Support Foundation 	Foundation 	$20,000 	2018
Carson Street Elementary 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
Carson Womens Club 	Foundation 	$4,000 	2018
Century Villages At Cabrillo Inc 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Compatior Inc 	Foundation 	$4,000 	2018
Conga Kids 	Foundation 	$5,000 	2018
Deforest Chapter North Long Beach Neighborhood Association 	Foundation 	$2,000 	2018
Del Amo Elementary 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
Education Equals Opportunity Too Foundation 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
Eunice Sato Academy Of Math & Science 	Foundation 	$16,000 	2018
Food Finders Inc 	Foundation 	$7,500 	2018
Food Finders Inc 	Foundation 	$7,500 	2018
Friends Of Banning Park Corporation 	Foundation 	$7,000 	2018
Friends Of Cabrillo Marine Aquarium 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Friends Of Cabrillo Marine Aquarium 	Foundation 	$7,000 	2018
Friends Of The Long Beach Firefighters 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Friends Of The Long Beach Firefighters 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
George De La Torre Jr. Elementary 	Foundation 	$20,000 	2018
Girl Scouts Of San Gorgonio Council 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Girl Scouts Of San Gorgonio Council 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Gulf Avenue Elementary School Parent Teacher Organization 	Foundation 	$15,000 	2018
Gulf Avenue Elementary School Parent Teacher Organization 	Foundation 	$15,000 	2018
Gulf Avenue Elementary School Parent Teacher Organization 	Foundation 	$15,000 	2018
Harbor Area Gang Alternatives 	Foundation 	$30,000 	2018
Harbor Area Gang Alternatives 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
Harbor Area Gang Alternatives 	Foundation 	$1,000 	2018
!
20

-- 20 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Harbor Interfaith Services Inc 	Foundation 	$9,000 	2018
Hawaiian Avenue Elementary Schools Education Foundation 	Foundation 	$2,624 	2018
Hispanas Organized For Political Equality-California 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
Hispanas Organized For Political Equality-California 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Hispanas Organized For Political Equality-California 	Foundation 	$5,000 	2018
Intellectual Virtues Academy Of Long Beach 	Foundation 	$45,000 	2018
International Bird Rescue 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
International Bird Rescue 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
International Trade Education Programs Inc 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
Long Beach Education Foundation 	Foundation 	$4,000 	2018
Long Beach Nonprofit Partnership 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
Long Beach Public Library Foundation 	Foundation 	$150,000 	2018
Los Angeles Fire Department Foundation 	Foundation 	$15,000 	2018
Los Angeles Fire Department Foundation 	Foundation 	$18,000 	2018
Los Angeles Maritime Institute 	Foundation 	$125,000 	2018
Los Angeles Police Foundation 	Foundation 	$35,000 	2018
Los Angeles Unified School District 	Foundation 	$125,000 	2018
Los Angeles Unified School District 	Foundation 	$75,000 	2018
Los Angeles Unified School District 	Foundation 	$175,000 	2018
Marine Mammal Care Center Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
Marine Mammal Care Center Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
Muskwa Club Inc 	Foundation 	$5,000 	2018
Operation Jump Start 	Foundation 	$15,000 	2018
Pacific Battleship Center 	Foundation 	$150,000 	2018
Palos Verdes Peninsula High School 	Foundation 	$5,000 	2018
Parent Institute For Quality Education Inc 	Foundation 	$60,000 	2018
Phineas Banning Senior High 	Foundation 	$20,000 	2018
Phineas Banning Senior High 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
Pta California Congress Of Parents Teachers & Students Inc 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
Rancho Los Cerritos Foundation 	Foundation 	$2,500 	2018
Regional Hispanic Chamber Of Commerce 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
Santa Catalina Island Conservancy 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
Sharefest Community Development Inc 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
Sharefest Community Development Inc 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$8,600 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$5,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$20,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$70,000 	2018
!
21

-- 21 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$33,500 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$20,000 	2018
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$8,000 	2018
South Bay Youth Clubs 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Southeast Community Development Corporation 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
Southeast Middle 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Stephen M. White Middle 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2018
Stephens Middle 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
United States Veterans Initiative 	Foundation 	$30,000 	2018
Westside Student Center 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2018
Wilmington Community Clinic 	Foundation 	$1,000 	2018
Wilmington Community Clinic 	Foundation 	$800 	2018
Wilmington Community Clinic 	Foundation 	$8,100 	2018
Workshops For Warriors Inc 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
YMCA - Greater Long Beach 	Foundation 	$26,000 	2018
YMCA - Greater Long Beach 	Foundation 	$1,500 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$1,500 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$1,500 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$36,000 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles 	Foundation 	$1,500 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles - Downey Family 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles - Downey Family 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles - Gardena-Carson 	Foundation 	$125,000 	2018
YMCA - Metropolitan Los Angeles - Gardena-Carson 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2018
Youth Scholars And Athletes Assistance League 	Foundation 	$2,500 	2018
1736 Family Crisis Center 	Foundation 	$80,000 	2019
American National Red Cross - Greater Long Beach Chapter 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2019
American National Red Cross - Greater Long Beach Chapter 	Foundation 	$80,000 	2019
Barrio Logan College Institute 	Foundation 	$6,000 	2019
Boys & Girls Club Of Carson 	Foundation 	$125,000 	2019
Boys And Girls Clubs Of Long Beach 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2019
Boys And Girls Clubs Of The Los Angeles Harbor 	Foundation 	$175,000 	2019
California Fire Chiefs Ems Fire And Education Foundation 	Foundation 	$10,000 	2019
Campanile Foundation 	Foundation 	$11,505 	2019
City Of Long Beach 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2019
City Of Long Beach 	Foundation 	$1,000 	2019
Hawaiian Avenue Elementary Schools Education Foundation 	Foundation 	$3,000 	2019
!
22

-- 22 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
Hudson K-8 	Foundation 	$25,000 	2019
International Trade Education Programs Inc 	Foundation 	$30,000 	2019
International Trade Education Programs Inc 	Foundation 	$100,000 	2019
Long Beach Police Foundation 	Foundation 	$5,000 	2019
Los Angeles Maritime Institute 	Foundation 	$120,000 	2019
Los Angeles Unified School District 	Foundation 	$30,000 	2019
Pacific Battleship Center 	Foundation 	$150,000 	2019
Palos Verdes Peninsula High 	Foundation 	$2,500 	2019
Santa Catalina Island Conservancy 	Foundation 	$50,000 	2019
South Bay Center For Counseling 	Foundation 	$70,000 	2019
Wilmington Community Clinic 	Foundation 	$1,000 	2019
Direct Giving By Employees 	Employee Giving 	$107,212 	2019
Corporate Match 	Employee Giving 	$64,327 	2019
!
23

-- 23 of 26 --

2020 Stakeholder Engagement Planning
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TEAM
Tiffany Rau, Government & Public Affairs Manager, oversees public affairs, government relations, and
stakeholder engagement for MPC operations in Southern California with a primary focus on LAR. The SoCal
team leads the development and implementation of strategies for achieving local public policy goals.
Olga Chavez, Senior Government Affairs Specialist, is responsible for development and implementation of a
consistent approach to strategic priorities for community relations, public outreach, community investment
programs, and voluntary employee community involvement.
Steve Konig, State and Public Affairs Director, Western Region provides strategic oversight of all government
and public affairs advocacy in California and the entire MPC western region.
Nicole Parra, California Government Affairs Manager, develops strategy and implementation for advocacy on
proposed legislation impacting MPC and the industry.
Greg Busch, Regulatory Affairs Specialist, manages policy positions and advocacy at the South Coast Air Quality
Management District.
Jamal Kheiry, Senior Communications Manager, oversees external messaging, and communications at MPC.
Kheiry will serve as a communications adviser to the refinery and will be a resource for proactive media
relations strategies and pitches to writers in the region.
Amy Nusbaum, Senior Communications Manager, oversees MPC’s internal communications program, manages
the company’s oneMPC campaign, and advises the refinery on applying best practices, leveraging a range of
communication channels and message development.
Brianna Patterson, Communications Specialist, supports the refinery’s communications and oversees MPC’s
social media content and planning, and manages MPC’s multiple social platforms.
Colin Maynard, Stakeholder Engagement Manager, supports assets and business goals by recommending and
implementing community and stakeholder engagement strategies at MPC.
Cathy Huffman, Community Investment Manager, oversees MPC’s Foundation and community giving strategies.
Refinery Leadership Team, the local team will be positioned to help facilitate internal alignment, provide
intelligence on contractors, regulators, safety officials, community groups, and permit writers and regulators in
the region.
!
24

-- 24 of 26 --

MEASUREMENT & REPORTING
STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION, EVALUATION & PRIORITIZATION
As MPC begins to proactively engage stakeholders, this new action will create ongoing reaction and information
about how relationships between MPC and the community change over time. Our team will periodically gather
more data about stakeholders’ relationship with MPC, their awareness of our business and operations, and their
sentiment towards our business and the industry at large. It will be important for us to understand trends over
time, including the impact stakeholders have on MPC’s business and stakeholders’ influence on the community’s
perception about MPC and the company’s license to operate in the region.
We will track stakeholder engagement activity at the refinery, report on results, and measure stakeholders’ Impact
and Influence over time. (See below for the heat map we will use to measure both along with indicators of how
MPC should view and respond to the stakeholder relationship moving forward.)
To support the approved Stakeholder Engagement Plan, Corporate Affairs will deliver an activity tracker and
timeline spelling out responsibilities and the recommended strategies and tactics to help support leadership’s
priorities laid out in this plan.
REPUTATION MANAGEMENT

-- 25 of 26 --

An initial review of media coverage, stakeholder predispositions, and feedback from our consultants on the
ground will provide our best thinking on how the community perceives the refinery and any risks to public safety,
health and air quality.
Corporate Affairs has identified resources such as Morning Consult, which will collect, organize and share real-
time survey research to provide a high-level reputation index.
AUDIENCE SEGMENTATION RESEARCH
As needed, Corporate Affairs will take additional steps to provide more analytical audience segmentation research
that can help us move the needle with target audiences and prescribe messaging strategies and tactics to best
position MPC and the refinery with stakeholders.
It will be important to gauge reputation through social media analytics and audience segmentation research –
polling, surveys or focus groups to understand stakeholder perceptions about MPC and issues related to the
refinery – over regular intervals over the next 24 months. Doing so will help us expand engagement, target
audiences based on informed research, and think critically about how best to neutralize and improve local
perception issues. Results will be reported regularly along with evaluation of stakeholders and recommendations
on how to capitalize on our research and stakeholder relationships.
REGULAR INTELLIGENCE REPORT
Corporate Affairs will detail activity and engagement efforts in a regular intelligence report. In upcoming
discussions with the refinery, a regular cadence will be established for the report.
PERIODIC BENCHMARK DISCUSSIONS
Corporate Affairs will meet periodically with the refinery to review the strategy and community feedback.
Benchmarks can include media coverage, community engagement events, coalition building efforts, meetings with
elected officials, surveys conducted to profile audience and social media analytics.
KEY INFLUENCERS
After prioritizing and analyzing stakeholders, we have identified a list of key influencers we believe have
significant influence in the community and could have a major impact on our business. We are also identifying
emerging stakeholders who could grow in influence and play a role in shaping the community's reputation and
predisposition toward the refinery and operations.
We will track both groups of stakeholders and trends in the heat map demonstrated above. The map ranks
influence and impact at varying degrees and will help us understand how a relationship is evolving and what
measures should be taken to maintain or improve the relationship or even respond to issues.
COMMUNITY PRESENTATION DECK
A custom PowerPoint presentation has been created for the Refinery Leadership Team and Corporate Affairs to
use in external presentations to educate stakeholders about the refinery and local operations. The deck includes
boilerplate information about the refinery, introduces the Refinery Leadership Team, and shares examples of
community investment and volunteer projects. The deck will also reinforce commitments to environmental,
workplace and community safety, and share information about operations and opportunities for local shared value
where possible. If interested in working with Corporate Affairs to customize an upcoming presentation, please
contact Colin Maynard at cmaynard@marathonpetroleum.com or (419) 619-2210.

-- 26 of 26 --

